for the largest fireworks from Silverado
all I found had connections to either
mafia people or CIA people and also to
Neil Bush up until now it's the the
damage has been largely limited to
Democrats that it was Clark Clifford it
was Jimmy Carter it was Bert Lance it
was it was these these prominent
Democratic insiders who were who were
being tarred with the with the BCCI
scandal now we'll now we're seeing
George W Bush and his connections to a
company that has ties to BCCI and also
in the last few days we've seen this
question about one of the aides to
Sununu John Sununu who has who has
prominent ties to BCCI the CIA is not a
law enforcement agency they sort of act
like that they are you know is
ridiculous they were operating for their
own purposes
and which was to use this Bank for their
own purposes the fact they didn't tell
the Justice Department is indicative
that you know they didn't want the law
enforcement people this country to know
what was going on there we take a look
at the scandals which are rocking the
country BCCI
the savings and loans the Bush family
Oliver North the CIA the Mafia and what
the media are not saying about these
scandals right now on alternative views
scandal scandal scandal the United
States seems to have been plagued with a
series of scandals in recent years the
iran-contra S&L crisis CIA BCCI October
Surprise and probably the greatest
scandal of them all George Bush today on
alternative views we are going to
discuss some of these scandals and their
inner relations our guests are two
investigative reporters Pete Bruton
formerly of the Houston post and the
Houston Chronicle who has just completed
a book on the great SNL robbery in which
he tells of the complex machination x'
between different corporations the CIA
organized crime and any other
individuals in robbing the SNL and the
American taxpayer our other guest is
David Armstrong who's the editor of the
Texas observer who's published articles
on the iran-contra crisis and scandal
and who's done some recent investigative
work on some of the connections of
George Bush's family to certain
phenomena like the SNL crisis the Harkin
Energy Corporation and other things so
we're happy to have you both back with
us thank you new views Pete the first
name of the from the Bush family to pop
up in the Savings and Loan thing was
Neil Bush and Silverado up in Denver
right that's correct yeah neela became
called me a poster child of the SNL I
found Silverado by tracing her Mackay BB
the mafia associates from Louisiana who
also has a number of connections to CIA
people and for the largest borrower
works from Silverado all I found had
connections to either mafia people or
CIA people and also to Neil Bush we had
Bill Walker's Ken good Larry Mizell and
also people like Wayne reader and some
others that were big big borrowers from
Silverado which was a two billion dollar
SNL in Denver that it's gonna end up
costing taxpayer
about a billion dollars they also had
connections either business-wise or
politically to Neil Bush and the stories
were to show how these people like Larry
Mizell and his company MDC Holdings they
they raised about five hundred six
hundred million dollars from Mike Milken
drexel burnham holy heck did Mike Milken
right they were not only borrowing from
Silverado barn from Lincoln's the
Charles Kings Lincoln savings they were
buying into a savings in Loma San Diego
called Imperial savings that was owned
by a Chicago family with ties to the
Mafia
they were also borrowing from San
Jacinto savings in Houston which bailed
out Herrmann KBB is mobster from
Louisiana up to a tune of 50 or 60
million dollars after he was indicted
they bought his nursing homes they tried
to buy his bank and they bailed him out
lots of did they were being controlled
by an individual from Chicago who had
ties to the same family that controlled
imperial savings that NBC had bought
into they had this giant network daisy
chain that's anales and companies and
when you start seeing who's behind these
companies you run into the same they
were the mobsters and the CIA associates
and also you find out these are the same
people they're putting Neil Bush into
the oil business keeping him going in
the oil business which you know he
didn't know very much about apparently
they drilled like 35 wells and 33 of
them were dry wells and yet these big
bars from Silverado kept injecting
capital and the Neil Bush's company and
selling the poems yeah that's right in
DC so Neil is home there was in his
wife's name by the way and most of the
money they were rejecting were going to
Neil salary so it pays to be the son of
the President of the United States it
appears absolutely there are
perks I think that you know in one way
since they were using Neil as a as a you
know as a shield you know to protect
them you know against prosecution and
who's going to go after their lifter got
to go through Neil Bush you know Neil
Bush is standing in front of them
I'm not sure how much he knew that what
was going on I think he knew which side
the bread was buttered on you know what
he was going to stand on that side and I
have to believe that he knew that they
were cheating at least I think he knew
they were cheating did you ever get
through to him did you talk to Neil Bush
yourself yes you know I I've talked to
his brother George W Bush also who was
involved in the Harkin thing we'll talk
about later and they're both I called
haha guys you're like haha you know it's
kind of a big joke you know that you
know my I know that my dad's the Vice
President is gonna be the president and
you know there's nothing anybody can do
to me I got it made and this is all
gonna go away my dad's gonna make it go
away and his people and it's all kind of
a big joke well this george w bush has
only come up fairly recently everybody's
talked about Silverado and the other
Bush who is george w bush he's not quite
such a recent entry he's the oldest son
of the bushes his name has come up as a
potential candidate for governor of
texas on several occasions so he's not
he's not a complete newcomer but george
w has been involved in a lot of
different activities over a number of
years he's had several energy ventures
out in Midland some of which have run
into some some problems there was a
there was a some allegations of what
they call melons slicing where they were
pumping up the appraised value on some
lands that they were selling to get E
oil which was practically their only
customer out there apparently the
allegations mean that he was trading on
inside information but his his last
independent oil venture
a company called spectrum seven and
spectrum seven in 1986 was purchased by
the Harkin Energy Corporation which is
now located in Grand Prairie Texas and
Harkin has some very interesting
connections Pete I think was one of the
first people to really kind of
scrutinize George Bush's involved or
Jr's involvement in harken Pete realized
that there were some apparent
irregularities in the fact that George
jr. had sold a large stake a large stake
of in Harken off shortly before the war
in the Middle East
shortly before Iraq invaded Kuwait last
August George Jr sold off a sizable hunk
of his harkened holdings Harkin dropped
in value quite rapidly after the war
began within a week it had dropped by
about a quarter of its previous value as
a result George jr. saved himself a
considerable amount of money he might
have had some insider trading
information knowing a war was about to
it's down the tubes there's there's
certainly that that theory has certainly
been bandied about the the most
interesting thing about it was that
George jr. failed to ever file with the
FCC for over eight months he was
supposed to report to such an insider
sale of stock within ten days he'd
failed to do it until March of this year
there has been no effort but in the part
of the SEC to try to prosecute over that
they refused to even acknowledge whether
there was an investigation into this
even though they were well aware of the
fact that this was going on Pete how did
you find this trail now there was what
led you to start investigating George
Bush jr. and the harkened connection
well this was after Iraq invaded Kuwait
and the editor of the Houston post de
bergen called me into his office and
said he had one of his buddies had told
him the story I got reason was that Neil
Bush had some oil wells into
that was so you know I was floating
around Neil Bush had all wells in Kuwait
and he wanted me to go investigate there
and I didn't want to do it I was on to
the S&L stuff and he told me yes I was
gonna do it so you know you start your
research you first I went to our oil
reporter you know and Sam told me that
he seemed like you'd remembered that
George Bush Chuck Davis the president's
I was involved in all company that had
some sort of interest maybe in the
Middle East so then you go to your
computerized databases and immediately I
found a story that was ran in Forbes
magazine it was about george w bush's
interest in Hark and energy and the
story was about how Harkin had obtained
this extremely lucrative contract to
drill for oil in bahrain's offshore
territory bahrain being the little
island off the coast of Saudi Arabia
which is pretty close to Kuwait I mean
Bahrain was was used by our Air Force I
believe in the Middle East for R&R
during the turn yeah in fact the what
the Emir of Bahrain honored recently
with a 21-gun salute I'm sorry George
Bush our president there was a full-page
ad in The New York Times announcing his
arrival in the following day there was a
rather telling photo of George Bush kind
of groveling at the Emir's feet pulling
out the podium pulling out the podium
the foot rest on the podium so that the
Emir would be high enough to reach the
microphones but it's George
Harken oil got the exclusive rights for
drilling there yeah it wasn't that was
the whole focus of the Forbes story and
they were quoting all the industry
observers interestingly though
Forbes managed never to mention george w
bush in the course of this that never
talked about they never said that they
said here bahrain got this incredible
contract it's a little bitty company has
never done anything
I mean Harkin dollar contracts have you
got any drift to drill in Bahrain and
they were scouring all the experts we
can't believe this isn't this incredible
never once mentioned in fact that George
W Bush prison son was a a major
stockholder and was getting paid
$120,000 a year as a consultant and was
was a director I believe in in all of
the SEC talk you couldn't pick up an SEC
document about Harkin and not read about
George Bush and yet Forbes never
mentioned it but now Harkin just isn't
some little old independent Wildcat and
company that suddenly because of a
presidential connection you made it big
you've done a lot of research both of
you've done a lot of research on Harkin
tell us about the web that Harkin is
involved in well I think the first thing
that has to be recognized is that it's
not just George W Bush that Harkin has
got connections that reach literally
worldwide one of their major investors
is a South African Anton Rupert
he owns he's involved in a partnership
that is the second largest holder of
Harkins stock Anton Rupert is a multi
multi billionaire owns his company's own
Cartier that the luxury jewelry
distributors his companies are involved
in natural resources his companies are
owned Mont Blanc pens all sorts of
things I mean he's it Dunhill cigarettes
is one of his one of his enterprises the
bath brothers are also connected to the
billionaire Bass brothers of Fort Worth
they're also involved in harken they're
going to be funding the exploration in
Bahrain as a matter of fact Harkin is
not going to be putting its own money at
risk it's going to be going out there
with bass brother backing some of the
other people involved with a Harvard
University endowment their funding arm
is
is in is the largest shareholder in
Harkin in addition there's a there's a
company called Treecko Treecko is a
Saudi Arabian firm owned by a Saudi but
Abdullah Taha Bosch his representative
on Harkins board is men by the name of
talent Othman and both Othman and Bosch
have direct ties to BCCI BCCI that's the
big scandal ridden by absolutely a bank
of credit and commerce international at
the moment but interestingly harken this
isn't the first time that harken has
come in contact with people who have
ties to scandal written banks another
major investor no partnership with Anton
Rupert is the quash of family Allen
quashes a New York lawyer hi spell that
quash qu8
sha okay and this is actually where I
kind of started off on the investigation
into harken after knowing what I knew
from reading Pete's stories I was
informed that that harken had a
connection to the new gihan Bank which
is this the precursor to BCCI in many
regards it was the original CIA mob bank
all kinds of intelligence connections
involvement in in the CIA assisted
destabilization of the Australian
government in 1975 I've dated in
Australia located in Australia with
branches and all over the world in Saudi
Arabia in in the Philippines and that's
where Harkins connection to nuke at hand
it initially began it's also interesting
that in connection with new gunhand
there were these people whose names
would pop up later like theodore Shaklee
absolutely did or Shaklee accord nelson
right
Edwin Wilson was also was also involved
their arms dealers who also were
involved in CIA projects possible drug
connections many of whom ended up in in
such notorious activities was around
contra sometime down the road the the
harken connection to Newton hand dates
back to the collapse of the of the bank
in 1980 after the
one of the co-founders was found shot to
death the the the federales started kind
of circling looking for looking for the
carcass and the two Philippines
representatives of the banks sought
legal counsel from their lawyer a
million a mr. William Howard quash ahooo
turns out to be Alan quash of the
director Parkinson father the quash of
family as I mentioned are in partnership
with this multi-billionaire South
African as major shareholders in harken
in addition William quash a-- had branch
offices of his law firm in the
philippines he had an office in bangkok
in that bangkok office was in the same
building where noog enhance bangkok
offices were located there have been
also established ties between mr. quash
ax william quash ax and and the marcos
family that he during the the people's
Power Revolution in 1986 William quash
it was one of the few Pro improve Marcos
voices to be heard his name was was
brought up in in congressional testimony
after he urged the United States not to
back Aquino for fear that if she came
into power the Communists would take
over the country and that American bases
would be would be lost there mister
quash is a very imposing figure in the
Philippines is the only American lawyer
there and has a great deal of power he
has what he has expressed as being kind
of warm feelings still for Marcos
despite the what we know today about and
as his son his son is a director at
Harkin the quash of family is in a
partnership with Anton Rupert is the
second-largest shareholder now when did
they bring George Bush jr. on board here
and why do you think they brought him in
well he came on when his his spectrum
seven oil company was purchased in in
1986 he became a director at that time
the the reasons are what can only be
speculated about I think Pete has
intimated the
notion that they may have recognized
that there's a there's kind of a shield
factor involved in having the the
president or in that case the vice
president son involved in your company
that when things start to go awry
there's going to be a less Stute effort
probably to try to try to penetrate
whatever whatever's going on why would
George Bush allow his son George jr. to
get involved with such an unsavory ban
obviously Neal getting involved with
Silverado that just seemed to be a
wheeling dealing entrepreneurial bank in
Colorado that's just a good business
activity but this is sort of high-class
world intrigue I'm not sure that George
Bush necessarily but I'm not sure that
George jr. necessarily takes orders
anymore he's forty four-year-old and
fully grown I think he probably makes
his own decisions but I don't think that
it was looked on a scant certainly by
the families I mean George George senior
has been a so-called oil man for a long
time he came to Texas to get into the
oil industry had his own oil company and
it had its own you know kind of bizarre
connections it's been it's been
suggested that it had its own rather
unsavory history as well some actions
with CIA and intelligence and the harken
connection now that we cover all the
people and organizations and
institutions that are involved in that
it seemed to me from your articles and
the Texas Observer about it that they
were more extensive there are there are
there are a lot of connections that
harken has to a whole lot of different
activities Harkin perhaps one of the
most intriguing at the moment is the
BCCI connection that that the third
largest shareholder in harken abdullah
Taha Bosch has a representative on
Harkins board this is a gentleman by the
name of Talent Othman is a Chicago
financier has a brokerage firm in Chaves
tenan is he's a palestinian-american
that's correct he's been in this country
though for a number of years this brings
us to the CIA because BCCI is a CIA
they'll tell you that it was for what
they call standard banking practices
that they were in there doing their you
know writing their checks and paying the
bills I guess out of the BCCI accounts
also for intelligence purposes they were
just keeping an eye on those bank they
had to push their money someplace when
they were off destabilizing governments
but getting back to the the these other
two people that you talked about the
Palestinian and the other right
absolutely before they before they
became involved in harkened they were
involved in a couple of operations in
Europe one of them being Saudi Finn
saudi Finn was the Saudi Arabia finance
company the this was a company that was
owned by a man by the name of NGO called
avocado calls and go calls is one of the
Pakistani go call brothers and they are
shipping magnets they own of huge
shipping conglomerate worldwide
operations they were the largest
borrowers at BCCI their affiliation with
BCCI goes all the way back to 1972 which
is the the earliest date the BCCI was in
operation the NGO calls companies are
now very likely going to be seized by
regulators and attempt to recoup some of
the losses from BCCI as a result of the
encumbered nature of these these
enterprises that the NGO calls used to
back up their their loans from BCCI
interestingly harken has independent
connections to BCCI outside of the of
their their corporate boardroom one of
the brokerage companies that they've
been involved with who placed stock for
them with the Union Bank of Switzerland
as where where Othman and Bosch became
involved they bought their stock through
the Union Bank of Switzerland in a deal
that was brokered by Stephens
incorporated Stevens incorporated his
own Little Rock Arkansas brokerage house
venerable old company which during the
1970s was involved in the first attempt
to sell the
the first American Bancshares which is
the company that Clark Clifford recently
got into so much trouble with to BCC I
just this was a 90 that deal did not go
through BCC I eventually acquired first
American Bank shares but not through
Stevens incorporated boy these C's are
so complex they eventually succeeded
Stevens incorporated eventually
succeeded in selling a bank to BCC I and
this was Bert Lance's National Bank of
Georgia which is where we see him today
being called up on the carpet to explain
his associations with the company so
they basically buy politicians on both
sides of the aisle Democrats the Clark
Shepherd Bert Lance connection
Republicans getting George Bush jr. I
think this is one of the first instances
now we're starting to see the republics
up until now it's the the damage has
been largely limited to Democrats that
it was Clark Clifford it was Jimmy
Carter it was Bert Lance it was it was
these these prominent Democratic
insiders who were who were being tarred
with the with the BCCI scandal now we'll
now we're seeing George W Bush and his
connections to a company that has ties
to BCCI and also in the last few days
we've seen this question about one of
the aides to Sununu John Sununu who has
who has prominent ties to BCCI so it's
starting it's starting to creep into the
Republican camp it's also these
political connection it's not just that
there's these economic connections with
big corporate people who are involved
with democratic or Republican Party but
the government itself is using banks
like the BCCI the CIA during the Reagan
administration Oliver North and his
escapades in iran-contra Richard Secord
and his Enterprise any number of other
CIA activities were not just
investigating the BCCI I mean that just
won't wash that excuse that while they
were infiltrating the bank so they could
monitor it and investigate it they were
using the money the resources the
connections etc for their own operations
I mean that was clear in North case
absolutely
but this this shouldn't I'm sorry this
really shouldn't surprise anybody I mean
where else would you word the CIA Bank
they need just as the the so-called
terrorist organizations that were
involved with the drug money launderers
who were involved in BCCI or new ghen
hand or any of the others they need a
bank that's that's kind of got this
reputation for not being too scrupulous
about exactly who its lending money to
or what the money is being used for it
makes perfect sense that all these
people would end up at the same
institutions over and over again well I
was gonna say that you know the CIA is
not a law enforcement agency for they
sort of act like that they are you know
is ridiculous they were operating for
their own purpose and which was to use
this bank for their own purposes and the
fact they didn't tell the Justice
Department is indicative that you know
they didn't want the law enforcement
people this country to know what was
going on there because they were using
their a shield sort of for any sort of
genuine investigation by real law
enforcement agents oh yeah and you know
Bert Lance was saying that the guy who
founded BCCI
was apparently put on the CIA's payroll
in 1984 and he's even indicated that
there may be connections to the October
Surprise incident and that in that
capacity
that he may have been there and being
paid and had some association with these
with these early efforts by the Reagan
administration administration to try to
subvert the election let me ask you and
the last program we did about the CIA
the Mafia and the SNL's and now also
we're talking about small banks Harkin
is a is a significant corporation but
it's not a one of the big daddy or weird
yeah all right now we're not seeing
Texaco we're not seeing Chase Manhattan
or Citicorp or I'm not seeing prominent
names from necessarily from the Council
on Foreign Relations or I haven't seen
any indication that they are these are
the big guys at the top the Rockefellers
and all and this is a very complex world
we've been talking about all these
intricate
a lot of rich people but we're not
necessarily we haven't been talking
about the the highest stratum of
political and economic power what are
these people doing or are they connected
in a way with this well I saw some of
that in the SML where you you scratched
deep enough you know you ran into the
DuPont family you're on the Carl lender
you know you run into a lot of rich
powerful people but they're not up at
the forefront they're way back in the
shadows and I think that if you trace
out the BCCI front of you look Bank of
America was one of the biggest you know
you know stock and BCC I Lee helped BCC
out here a bank America when I was
largest bank in this country and here
they were intimately involved with BCC
it's pretty big too and I think when you
look at a company like harken you do see
these people I mean these are some of
the wealthiest people in the entire
world
Anton Rupert and the bass family and
Bosch ISM is a multi billionaire as well
connections to the Bush family and many
others I mean these are these are not
insignificant players the question then
becomes what are they doing in this
little piddling money losing company
that gets all these fabulous successes
in terms of landing these these
potentially vastly lucrative deals where
are the biggest banks now like Chase
Manhattan Citicorp and all all that
they're up playing pacman buying up in
we had reports before when you're
talking about savings alone different
programs where a lot of the these bad
assets are and a lot of the junk bonds
and all were eventually sold and sold
bought up by some of the biggest
insurance companies and biggest banks
and they're like playing old maid they
were they're stuck with all these bad
things
is there a parallel situation with this
or these big guys way way up the top are
they are are they involved at all I
don't think we know enough yet to say I
know that in one case in
tracking a really dirty S&L deal where
we found money that was from a bad SNL
deal going into the same bank account in
Irving Trust Bank in New York also the
money from drug deals was going into
that same account drug deals you know
with cie guns for drugs and mafia
connections going to the same bank
account with SNL money with people that
had CIA and Marquette mob connections
into Irving Trust Bank in New York City
which is a fairly large prestigious pay
now deserving trust know this I don't
know but you can bet that the people
were using it knew that they would get
some sympathy there are at least we're
gonna get into trouble but it's it's a
very complex literally multi-layered
thing where Bank of America one of the
biggest banks will help fund this BCCI
which in turn will take over another one
like the clap Clark Clifford Bank etc
and then there's other people who are
boards of directors overlapping on any
number of these different things so the
BCCI has enough sort of autonomy that he
can do the really dirty business and the
other people like Clark Clifford can
attempt to wash their hands of this
they'll have a plausible deniability if
they get caught
although the deniability doesn't really
doesn't really go very far I mean when
you look back and you see the the early
manifestations of BCCI and the scandals
and Burt Lance in his ultimate
resignation over his dealings with with
these folks his his attorney was Robert
Altman the very person who's now denying
that he had any knowledge of BCCI
connections to first American well he
had been dealing with them in in this
capacity as negotiating for Lance I mean
it did just doesn't wash but that that
aspect of the story has not has not been
brought forward I've seen references
in the spotlight when they've been
tracking stories particularly Miami
where their investigations of bank
laundering and there would be
investigations into the biggest banks
like city Corp or Chase Manhattan but
this information would generally be
hushed up so they were doing and drug
laundering drug money laundering at
their level so apparently it's happening
at all levels in the financial system
it's just a matter that which which
banks get the spotlight on from the
media BCCI's again that's today
it's easy it's easy to invest in
investigate a bank once it's gone
belly-up it's easy to get in and find
out what the records were and see what
and and see what's happened and that's
what's happened in BCCI the the bank was
seized the records became available and
everybody all of a sudden had documents
to work with the fact is that that many
people were onto BCCI for years that
this is not some new revelation these
these facts were known for a long time
it was there was no failure on the part
of the mainstream press to investigate
these these aspects that are now that
are now such such a huge source of
interest everybody think there's I think
there's another aspect to it also and
that is that all of a sudden the
documents were not only available but
being handed to reporters that all of a
sudden william von Raab that the former
head of customs steps forward with this
with these documents and lays them in
reporters laps and says the CIA has
connections to BCCI well that was known
for a long time but it wasn't an issue
until some somebody official with a
title made the made this this available
to reporters and a nice neat package
that they could take back to their
office why do this why did rob reveal
these documents there what there has
been a lot of a lot of speculation that
this maybe had been a deflection tactic
that it was a way of containing the
damage that the the story was going to
leak but if they could if they could set
the agenda as to what was going to be
investigated that
they could they could kind of guide the
thing through and contain the fallout it
certainly makes a lot of sense
especially in the in the fact that for
the most part up until just very
recently most of most of the residual
effect of BCCI has fallen on the
shoulders of Democrats that there was
there seemed to be it seemed to be that
everybody involved in BCCI had some
connections to the Carter Administration
or something but if that if that was the
plan it was something that there may
have been a way of saying you go soft on
the October Surprise and for
congressional investigations and and
we'll try not to see that too many of
your folks falling in the BCC I think
David is true that economically the
connections of BCC I appeared until
recently to be with Democrats like Bert
Lance and Clark Clifford but politically
the connection seemed to be with
Republicans of the Reagan administration
people like North Secord
other CIA operations that were carried
out during the Reagan administration
fact let's focus on Oliver North for a
bit since he's become renowned again
since recently he put the finger on
Reagan claiming that Reagan knew
everything about the iran-contra affair
about the original arms sales to Iran
and the diversion of the funds to the
Contras and north of course was using
the BCCI bank to circulate this money
from the Iran arms sales to the Contras
so how do you see North fitting into
this whole picture well I think it's I
think it's very interesting that North
has now been absolved of
responsibilities that he has now been
been cleared and as they say he's
declared himself to be clean the the
decision though looks a little bit
suspect that there are the the
connection here goes quite a bit further
back if you look at the original
decision to
avoid the three the three convictions
against him one of the members of the
panel the Appellate Panel but that
overturned those convictions was a man
by the name of Laurence Silverman
Laurence Silberman was a reagan
appointee to the appellate court who had
involvement in the 1980 Reagan Bush
campaign he was a senior aide to the
campaign in that capacity he
participated in an event rather
interesting meeting this was a meeting
that's been widely written about where
bud McFarlane went on to become national
security adviser and Richard Allen and
Silberman met in the lobby of the L
enfant plaza hotel with a man who
claimed to have connections to the
Iranian government and could offer the
campaign the release of the American
hostages then being held Silberman
Lawrence and Allan all insist that
nothing ever came of this meeting that
it was dropped and that they never they
never carried it out this the gentlemen
one of the gentlemen actually who's come
forward claiming to be that Iranian
envoy also had meetings with the carter
administration and with the anderson
campaign at the time both of those
campaigns both of those contacts were
reported the Reagan administration's
contacts with this gentleman were never
reported of course we now know that
there's every likelihood that that
meeting was followed up on that
certainly there's been a lot of
circumstantial evidence to suggest that
there was a deal struck between the
Reagan Bush campaign team in 1980 and
the Iranians to prevent the release of
the hostages until after the election
and ultimately until after the
inauguration to prevent that October
Surprise prevent the potential October
Surprise on the part of the the Carter
campaign now this is a gentleman who
also has been Lauren Silverman that has
has been suggested to have participated
in the removal of Phoenix missiles from
Iran during the revolution
that the the man who says that he was
the Iranian envoy in that meeting the L
enfant plaza says that he and Silberman
joined together during 1979 to bring out
the weapons from Iran to protect them in
the in the event of the Shahs fall these
weapons were moved to the Naval Shipyard
in Philadelphia and they are very likely
the same ones that were traded back to
Iran as part of the arms for hostages
deal later on so Silverman would be
someone with expertise in arms and
indeed in Iranian arms so he would be a
relevant figure to negotiate a deal if
there was to be a deal to give the
Iranians arms absolutely he was
negotiating for the same arms that had
helped to remove in addition he had he
sits basically at the genesis of what
became Oliver North's enterprises that
were revealed in the Arrancar so he was
the ideal man then to suddenly get to
sit on an appellate panel he was
certainly ideal from the from the north'
defense team's point of view there's one
other interesting connection here that
relates to both of your investigations
and that is it was then alleged that
George Bush and William Casey and Donald
Gregg and others actually cut the deal
to hold the Americans hostage in Tehran
until after the election in a meeting in
Paris and a gentleman named Richard
brenneke was claims that he was there
and that Bush was part of this team both
of you have had at least some
connections with brenneke who again
turns up in the Oliver North deal where
he was part of this arms to Iran and
weapons to the Contras and the Contra
drug ring so it's unbelievable the
connections between these I think I
think that it's it's now important to
point out that brenneke has been
probably discredited beyond recognition
that there have been documents turned up
personal papers including credit card
receipts demonstrating that the time
that he says he was in Paris he was
actually important
at business dinners and involved in
other and other activities relating to
his real estate interests and but on the
other one and wouldn't this be normal if
they wanted to cover up his trip to
Paris that have certainly except that he
provided the very documents that were
yes but nevertheless I think though that
there is there is certainly a lot of
additional evidence brenneke included or
not that suggests that that the deal was
cut whether it was in Paris or whether
it was in Madrid as as as Gary sick has
suggest at this point I think that
there's there's certainly enough to move
forward with a serious investigation
though these are ongoing negotiations
there's not any one that says it up
Peter I'd like to ask you getting back
to the BCCI thing what is your
impression of the coverage of it by The
Washington Post in the New York Times
the are a few articles I've read about
it they really either deny or downplay
the CIA connections with it well it's
interesting that the BX of BCCI is a
great story okay
and I think if you dig into it deep
enough you kind of hit the same people
that I am correct we already are we see
gate firown' involved in centrist
savings alone in Miami we see Gate for
us at least people involved with John
Connelly if you really dig deep enough
you're going to hit this saying these
same people that's why I'd like to
predict that that the mainstream press
is not going to dig that deep I don't
think they're gonna dig but for instance
Time magazine it's really been been
doing going after BCCI The Wall Street
Journal which has been going after it
both time also going to call it the
biggest financial scandal ever you know
which is a joke compared to savings
alone BCCI will not cost the American
taxpayers one cent okay the S&L scoffs
gonna cost us hundreds and hundreds of
billions of dollars
but they're beating the drum because one
they sort of got in on the ground floor
work that's kind of their story too they
miss the S&L stuff so they're sort of
saying you know it's like well we missed
yesterday's story but that's okay
because yes Nell wasn't as big a story
as BCCI
in which we've gotten you know so it's
like they're trying to make up for the
fact that they missed the S&L so the bad
smell isn't important VCC is one of the
things that struck me was the fact that
the very week that BCCI's connections to
the CIA became widely known the week
that the The Wall Street Journal excuse
me in The New York Times and The
Washington Post discovered it so to
speak was just at the time the Pete was
finishing his book and we talked on the
phone about the fact that suddenly this
start which they they could never
conceive of how the CIA could be
involved in banking institutions or any
of this when Pete was writing about
these stories all of a sudden BCCI shows
up and that they're all over that now
all of a sudden this is a legitimate
story CIA connections to a bank is is a
big deal they've got the documents and
it's their story when it was when it was
the Houston post or when it was the
Texas Observer when it was anybody else
doing it it was not it was not an issue
to be dealt with if you find this was
deja vu when you heard this BCCI
story how did you feel about this well
BCCI is in my book okay some things that
haven't been come out yet okay and I'll
just wait oh come on come on wait wait
till you read my book so they're BCCI is
in my book which I wrote you know
several months ago before the BCCI
scandal started so if there are the S&L
crisis for the beginning yeah there are
lots of connections and more than just
what I've told you so far there there
are many others it's the same the same
people that you find can you tell us
when you first came into contact with
BCCI
or when you first discovered that it was
part of this S&L crisis involved in this
same antic activity of this played any
role in your previous articles that you
No I only found out about it after I
took my leave of absence from the
Houston post and was writing a book I
think it's it's also very interesting to
see how this is played in the press
there was a very telling editorial in
the New York Times not too long ago
chastising the Justice Department for
not going after BCCI harder and earlier
for forgetting it convicted indictments
and convictions and really going in and
clamping down on this operation well
this raises the question of why the New
York Times wasn't doing that if they how
can they how can they criticize the
Justice Department they were they were
just as culpable in the failure to to
fully understand or investigate the the
depth of this of this scandal when it
was when it was widely known in in many
in many fields in fact this whole
phenomena raises serious questions we
haven't really raised yet in our
discussion about our system of justice
in this country we're supposed to have
an FBI and a Justice Department that's
supposed to go after organized crime
they're supposed to go after drug
dealers we're supposed to have a justice
system it's the independent of the
political system it's this division of
powers upon which American democracy is
based so this seems to be a fairly
significant threat to our democracy not
just the fact that the media isn't
covering these scandals which is a
scandal but also the Justice Department
is not investigating this this Richard
Thornberg the the head of the Justice
Department under Bush just didn't seem
to want to look into BCCI or any of
these scandals how do you account for
this and this seems to me highly
scandalous I think if you just if you
draw a flowchart of the way the
government works it makes perfect sense
Justice Department as part of the
executive branch and the FBI as part of
the Justice Department when you have the
president calling the shots directing
the Justice Department ultimately this
is the kind of investigation you get and
it works that way for most other things
as well that there's a apparent lack of
will to go after these and and there may
be some some self-interest in
in keeping a lid on on some of these
investigations and what you're of it
since you're both journalists what do
your evaluation of the mass media and
all these stories that we've been
talking about well I don't think we
should have any illusions you know the
way they operate is they're gonna follow
the leader you know they're gonna go
with what the official story in
Washington is so many times and what
somebody some governor facial hands them
a document and that it's very rare that
you get independent digging and it's a
shame most most journalists are not
investigators they're stenographers they
go into the press conference they find
out what the official opinion is and
they might get some some balancing
quotes from from some from a dissenting
view and that and that's the extent of
the investigation to go out and actually
independently analyze what the what the
real situation is who's pulling the
strings where the money went these
questions go virtually unasked and as
long as they dominate the debate they're
set as set the agenda the debate remains
in a fairly narrow framework and it's
just not widely discussed in the mass
population we have time now for some
news stories from the alternative press
the immediate have been saying that well
socialism is dead because of the was
because of the events in the Soviet
Union or her ex Soviet Union but
nobody's been making a big thing about
what's been happening in Ontario because
in 1990 the new democratic party took
over there in power in the Parliament
after for many years just being one of
those weak little third parties yes
jumped from 19 seats out of a hundred
and thirty to a commanding 73 so they're
running things up there I'd be the same
thing say if socialists took over New
York and Michigan and California and
Illinois all at once well what are these
socialists been doing well there may be
called democratic socialists or social
democratic depending on
you are but anyway it's a correlation
coalition of populist and working people
and labor unions here's what their
budget is actually set up to do a major
increase in funding for municipalities
to build roads bridges the
infrastructure schools hospitals
accelerated housing programs under
seventy five million for fun to protect
workers whose plants were shut down I've
been cheated out of wages by some of the
companies they'll have money to
implement pay equity which is for
private and public sectors as well
new rape crisis centers more money for
Native people small businesses and
farmers and a tax increase for those
people with incomes over eighty four
thousand dollars tax increase so it's
really gonna hurt this poor affluent
people it goes up from 10% to 14% oh wow
they're going to be hurting
so naturally the outcry from the media
has been great and the business people
have been furiously attacking the new
Democratic Party the Canadian wall
street equivalent of Wall Street to
lowered the bond rating of Ontario and
the economics minister has been his name
is Floyd Lauren and so they've labeled
him Pink Floyd now not everybody's happy
with this they have a gas-guzzler tax
and so the workers that who work at the
automobile plants are not happy they're
fair they might lose jobs because of
that some of the people on the Left are
saying well you're not going far enough
you're just just making things will the
few little reforms here are not going to
be very basic they're wanting more
substantial reform and more changes but
nonetheless it shows that people produce
come up with a part with a platform that
it will appeal to the people and will
work for it
that they can be elected that is unless
the electoral laws are stacked against
them like they are here in the United
States but who says Social women
work we'll see we'll see County and
Ontario at least Chinese claim that the
Kuwaiti oil fires in the Mount Pinatubo
volcano were major contributors to the
disastrous rains there
over the last several months some
Chinese scientists have told The
Associated Press in the United Press
that based on an analysis of satellite
data information that the Chinese
collected in Kuwait and atmospheric
models they're convinced that the whole
weathering patterns of the entire region
are being changed by the suit by the
pollution from the Kuwaiti oil fires in
fact I've been reading reports about
unusual weather all over the world there
was a heatwave this summer in Pakistan
that was greater than they've ever
experienced there was record flooding in
Afghanistan and Bombay India there was
more pollution and ozone depletion than
they've indicated in recent years and
experienced astronauts who have been up
in the space shuttle's in the last
month's report that the earth is
shrouded in a haze heavier than anything
they've ever seen before Shannon lucid
who's been up on three different flights
so far on the space shuttle says and I
quote it looks like we're looking down
through a haze I don't know if that's
because of the recent volcanic volcanic
eruptions or the Kuwait fires or what we
just haven't been getting as clear of
view as we had on previous missions the
haze over Africa was so thick that
another astronaut noted they could
barely see the ground and the astronauts
also reported that seeing the plumbs of
smoke over Kuwait and Iraq was very
frightening because it was so black
there was just this giant pitch black
cloud that was covering over the whole
region in fact there was even a more
frightening story from a military
scientist a michael williams who had
been involved in an advisory capacity
with some of the army people who are
addressing the fire and smoke pollutions
associated
the oil fires in Kuwait and who wrote up
a report drawing on he claims his
background as a petroleum engineer and
the oil industry and a former defense
professional with the United States Army
and mr. Adams says that several
different conclusions have been drawn
from these phenomena one that the smoke
plume from the well fires is now the
size of Iraq on May the 1st of 1991 the
Manawa wa Observer II on the Island of
Hawaii measured a 20-fold increase in
the amount of carbon in the atmosphere
that scientists claim is carbon soot
from the oil well fires in Kuwait as of
this writing which is several weeks ago
Adams claims that the fires have
generated 15 million tons of smoke and
that the entire plume is hovering and an
8 to 12 thousand feet level among the
ground that gets up to 20,000 feet it's
even going to be more dangerous in that
it will get up into the jet stream and
go across the entire of the earth well
mr. Adams said if you look at the
physics of this you will see that as
this smoke cloud heats up as the
temperature rises and it gets higher it
will absorb more and more sunlight and
the temperature of the earth will go
down accordingly this is a what is
called the self lofting phenomena and
the absorbing of sunlight that could
cause one of the greatest agricultural
failures that the human race has ever
seen that if the sunlight is blocked out
effectively if the temperatures decline
there's going to be a catastrophic
effect on the world environment and mr.
Adams says that unless immediate action
is taken unless there's a concerted
effort to put out these well well fires
and to start putting tremendous amounts
of water on this cloud to try to
disperse that he suggests take
the u.s. fuel tankers that were able to
fuel American planes during the Gulf War
and filling them with water and soaking
this oil cloud to sort of wash out some
of the cook soot and carbon unless
there's a around-the-clock attack on the
oil wells and he was all clouds he said
this environmental disaster is likely to
happen and so far the American
government the American media no one is
really addressing the magnitude of this
threat and out of says it may be too
late unless immediate action is taken
but of course this would raise questions
about the rationality of the Gulf War
and so these questions just aren't being
raised and that's alternative views for
this time frequently hear from viewers
who request a list of news publications
which we use on alternative views and
also a reading list for a US power
structure in the mass media if you would
like to have these send a stamped
self-addressed envelope to the
alternative Information Network p.o box
7 279 Austin Texas 7 8 7 1 3 you must
send a self-addressed stamped envelope
we also can give you some information on
how to get some of the publications by
former CIA officer john stockwell we'd
like to thank our crew who made our
program possible mark Albin Barbara
birch Lisa Funke date on Harvey Donald
Herman Brian Lynch and Kristen Manning
alternative views is a production of the
alternative Information Network p.o box
7 to 17 Austin Texas seven eight seven
one three bye